You are what you eat.
We all know that familiar saying.
It refers to things that we may choose to eat.
Well, it could be junk food or it could be healthy food.
Our choices can impact us physically,
as well as spiritually.
So if you are what you eat, you are what you see
and what you hear.
And that's especially true when it comes to entertainment.
We're reminded that each day
we have a choice to make when we wake up.
Will we partake of the table of Jehovah?
Or the table of demons?
We're free to choose.
But our choices have consequences.
They can draw us closer to Jehovah or could distance us.
Most today choose the table of the demons
and the consequences are plain to see.
Their actions reflect what's on the menu
of the table of demons.
And that is the works of the flesh listed at Galatians 5.
In contrast, we who are tied in and millions around the world
have chosen to eat at the table of Jehovah.
And the actions and the consequences are evident as well.
What's on Jehovah's menu?
Well, it's the fruitage of the Spirit.
It's very evident.
We love eating from Jehovah's table.
It's delicious and it's nutritious.
We all can attest to that.
It's interesting that a sister sent a letter of appreciation
to the governing body about spiritual food.
This is what she said.
Thank you for spoiling us with such a banquet
of rich, rich dishes that is constantly set before us.
As we indulge in such feasting, we
can say that our spiritual bellies are bulging
because you have wholeheartedly fulfilled your commission
to feed Jehovah's sheep.
So I think we can all agree.
We have so much food that we're getting.
We are full.
We're not talking to physical belly.
We're talking to the spiritual belly here.
We appreciate the governing body, blessing us
with all this food.
Now, because of the pandemic, of course,
we're at home now more than ever.
And perhaps we're alone at times, which brings up
many challenges and temptations about choosing
the right kind of entertainment that will
draw us closer to Jehovah.
Now, Satan knows we're alone.
He knows that sometimes we're lonely.
So he may feel we're more vulnerable or open to temptation
to partake of the table of demons.
Just a nibble.
Just a snack.
Will it really hurt?
You might remember this Watchtower quote.
It says, Satan does not mind if part of our heart
is loving what is right.
As long as part of it loves what is bad, what he promotes,
he wants you to eat at both tables,
knowing that it could distance you from Jehovah.
So is it possible to eat at both tables?
What's the harm?
Well, let's read today's scriptural text
at 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 21.
As we recall, it says, you cannot be drinking the cup
of Jehovah and the cup of demons.
You cannot be partaking of the table of Jehovah
and the table of demons.
So is it possible to eat at both tables?
Actually, yes, but they're in lies the problem.
You can do it, but what are the consequences?
Some live a double life.
They try to eat at both tables.
How does Jehovah feel about that?
Notice verse 22, it indicates that if we were to do so,
we would be inciting Jehovah to jealousy.
And we know he requires exclusive devotion.
He wants his to feed exclusively at his table.
However, we might rationalize if my main diet
is at Jehovah's table and once in a while I nibble
or snack at the table of demons, what's the harm?
I've been in the truth for years.
I've been at Bethel for quite a few years.
Maybe I'm a commuter, a remote worker, LDC.
I can handle it.
I'm mature, really?
What does verse 12 say?
It says, so let the one who thinks he is standing,
so spiritual, beware that he does not fall.
No temptation has come upon you,
except what is common to man.
Exclusive devotion includes every aspect of our life.
No exceptions, Paul reminds us of what Jehovah requires
of all those who have dedicated their lives to him.
Notice verse 31, it says whether you are eating
or drinking or doing anything else,
including entertainment, do all things for God's glory.
That's our goal, but Satan's goal is quite the opposite.
There are many Bible examples that we can look to
that really set a sterling example for us.
King David was one who always wanted to give
Jehovah exclusive devotion to do all things for God's glory.
In fact, open your Bible to Psalm 101,
and we're going to quickly read verses 1 through 8.
It's interesting, as we read his words,
we see the determination in his service to Jehovah,
what he will do and what he refuses to do.
In fact, he says, I will 11 times showing he was quite determined
in his what he would allow into his house or the associates
that he would allow into his company.
Notice there in Psalm 101, verse 1, he says,
I will sing about your loyal love and justice.
To you, O Jehovah, I will sing praises.
Yes, praising Jehovah, serving him,
giving him exclusive devotion was the number one thing
in David's life.
It impacted all of his choices that he made,
what he thought about, what he said, what he did.
This led to actions, notice verse 2,
says, I will act with discretion and blamelessness.
And then he asked the question, when will you come to me?
He was always concerned about his closeness to Jehovah.
He said, I will walk with integrity of heart inside my house.
So it didn't matter if David was with others
or if he was alone in his house where no one could see him.
He was determined to keep his integrity,
his whole hearted love and unbreakable devotion to Jehovah.
Like David, we must be determined to walk with integrity
inside our house, inside our Bethel room
where others may not see us, but knowing Jehovah can.
Integrity is like a fire wall.
A fire wall is a wall within our home or office building
that does not allow fire to spread from one room to the other.
It protects us from danger.
Well, another type of firewall is used
on computer security systems to prevent hackers
and viruses from infecting networks or computers.
Well, in the same way, we must build our own personal firewall
that is with our Bible-trained conscience,
not allowing bad things into our life,
only the good things from Jehovah
and making sure that these harmful influences
like immorality, violence and spiritism
has nothing to do with us because we know Jehovah hates these.
As we read verses three through eight,
it's almost like the menu for what's on the entertainment
and the demons' table.
And we can almost imagine that if David was alive today
and he had a remote control, TV remote control in his hand
or a mouse and he was clicking through the internet,
how he would view a lot of the things
that we have access today.
Notice verse three, he says,
I will not set anything worthless or good for nothing
before my eyes.
I hate the deeds of those who deviate from what is right.
I will have nothing to do with them.
A crooked heart is far from me.
I will not accept what is bad.
Anyone slandering his neighbor and secret,
I will silence.
So change the station, exit the website, turn it off.
Anyone with haughty eyes or arrogant heart,
I will not tolerate.
I will look to the faithful ones of the earth
so that they may dwell with me.
The one walking in blamelessness or integrity
will minister to me.
So blocking out what is bad but allowing the good in.
Seven, no deceitful person will dwell in my house
and no liar will stand in my presence or in front of my eyes.
Every morning, I will silence.
Change the station, exit the website, turn it off,
all the wicked of the earth
to cut off all wrongdoers from the city of Jehovah.
So again, David as well as us and all loyal ones
have a choice every day, what we will eat,
where we will eat, who we will eat with.
Our choices have consequences both physically and spiritually.
They can draw as close to Jehovah or they could distance us.
A recent watchtower encouraged us to ask ourselves,
will my choice of entertainment make it seem
that I'm hypocritical?
If my Bible students or return visits
saw the entertainment I choose,
would they think that I practice what I preach?
We will make wise choices
if we apply the counsel in Romans 12 and verse 9
to always let our love for God be without hypocrisy.
So remember, you are what you eat.
So continue to eat and partake exclusively of Jehovah's table
so we can give him exclusive devotion
and do all things for God's glory.